Welcome to the next section of our course.
And in this section we are going to build a retrieval augmented generation or otherwise called as Rag
applications.
So basically one of the most powerful application enabled by the large language model is the sophisticated
question and answering chatbots.
So while we say sophisticated question and answering if you know that while you try to ask any of the
questions to a large language model over here, you know that you are going to get the response based
upon how this model is being trained by the large data set that it knows.
But what if you are going to be asking a question which are specifically known to your company or your
organization, and you are building a large language model application, especially for your company.
So if you wanted to do these kind of operation, then you need to somehow feed the external source of
data to the large language model.
I mean, you can either fine tune the model and then you can make the data aware with that particular
large language model.
But instead of you doing this way, you can actually make use of the rag where you can supply the specific
source of your information to your large language models.
And that is what we are going to be doing in this particular section as well.
We are going to be building a retrieval augmented generation application, which is going to read the
PDF files or external files.
And then it is going to enable your large language model with that information.
So it is going to be adding more intelligence and context to your large language model.
So that is what we are going to be discussing in this particular section.
And you can see that this particular section we are going to discuss two most important part.
The one is the extraction and indexing part.
Another one is going to be the retrieval and generation part.
So this is this both combined is called as actually a rag.
But the one that we are going to be first doing is going to be on the extraction and indexing side.
So you can notice that over here on the extraction and indexing part of it, we are going to be reading
from some external files.
And in this case it's going to be a PDF file.
And then we are going to split these files into multiple chunks.
Now you may ask like Karthik, why do we even need to split the files into multiple chunks?
Well guess what?
While we are going to have a quite a large set of data, we need to split the data into multiple chunks
so that there will be a context window support for your large language model.
And you may know that if you go to this particular link over here especially, it is about the lemma
3.2 information.
You can notice that this particular model can have a context length of around 128 K tokens, and this
is the state of the art in their class on the device.
It can use case can be used on the device like summarization, instruction following and other tasks.
So these kinds of large language model itself supports 128 K of token.
So if you're going to have a more sized data like large big size of data that you are going to be passing
in as a question to these kind of models, then your model is going to struggle and it is going to have
hard time finding the information that you're looking for.
So maybe that information is not going to be even matching.
What is your actual question?
So if our document that we are trying to load has got a long length of data, then the context window
will make the model to struggle to find the information for very long input.
So because of this we need to split the files into smaller chunks, so that it can be easy for the large
language model to find the similarities of the information that you are looking for.
And once we split information into multiple chunks, which is the file data that we have got, we are
then going to embed these data to vectors.
As you can see over here.
And this embedding part is one of the most important part as well.
So this embedding can be done either by using your own technique or by using large language models.
I mean, there are so many different large language models available which does the embedding part much,
much easily.
So we are going to be doing this embedding part, which is going to convert the text into vector dimension
for that particular text.
And then we are going to be storing into a database.
And this database can be any of the database.
It could be a vector based database like fires or chroma or even Azure Cosmos DB.
There.
There are so many database available for doing this operation.
So we are going to be storing the data into this particular.
Database.
So I will also show you quickly like how this, uh, this embedding as well as this.
Database that we are going to be using is going to be looking like.
So if you're just going.
To go to uh, the link chain.
And if I'm going to search for, uh.
F a I s or the files over here, you can see that this is the vector store available, uh, in the long
chain.
So if I stand for Facebook, AI similarity search is a library for efficient similarity search and clustering
of dense vector.
And it contains algorithm that search in a set of vectors of any size and up.
One of the possibility does not fit in the Ram, and it includes supporting code evaluation and parameter
tuning.
That is what this file is all about.
And if you go to this, uh, left hand side, you see that there are vector stores available.
So you will notice that there are many different vector stores available.
So it can be Astra DB, Vector Store, chroma Clickhouse or Databricks, Elastic Store, Search Firestore,
In-memory Vector Store, Milvus and things of that nature.
So there are so many of them.
Even SQL server is also there to perform this operation.
So that is what is the the offline version.
And you can also use the cloud version of the same thing over here that I have got so many different
providers for doing the same kind of operation, and we are going to be actually using what is called
as chroma, because chroma seems to be like, uh, having all the support, like delta ID filtering,
search by vector, search by score, async operation.
I mean we are going to use all the potentials anyways.
But but yeah, chroma seems to be a good fit.
Uh, and if I just go and select this chroma, as you can see over here, the chroma is an AI native
open source vector database focused on developer productivity and happiness, which is great.
And chroma is licensed under Apache 2.0, so we can just use it for free without any cost incurred on
that usage.
And the way you can use this database is available over here.
We'll talk about that once we get there.
But you got the idea right.
Like this is how things are going to work in the Chrome world.
But as I said, we also need to talk about the embedding.
So I'm going to search for the long chain long chain embedding over here.
And you see that we have got some, uh, embedding models over here.
So these are the different kinds of embedding models which are available in the long chain.
And these embedding models will create a vector representation of a piece of text.
Essentially as you can see over here, this document will have quite a lot of different text inside
it.
And we are going to be converting these text into vector representation.
And that can be done easily using this embedding models.
And there are different types of model available, as I told you.
You can see that Azure, Google, AWS, Hugging Face, llama, cohere, Mistral AI and Nvidia Voyager
fake IBM Watson.
So yeah, these are the different providers available and there are different model supports that.
So as I told you these are the providers.
But the models you can also use llama 3.1 or 3.2 for that matter.
It also supports embedding operation.
So you can use that model as well if you wanted to.
So yeah, that is what we are going to be doing in this particular section.
And we'll see how we could able to achieve these operation for the extraction and indexing.
And once we do all these extraction and indexing, once we store the data into the database, the next
operation is going to be retrieval and generation.
Because this is where our bread and butter is all about.
We are going to be using this data that whatever we have stored into the database, and we are going
to use it for our question and answering with the power of the stored data and along with our local
large language model that we have got, which is running in the O Lama.
So that's where the retrieval and generation is going to happen.
So we will try to fit all the discussion in this particular section for the extraction and indexing
in one section.
And then we try to split it out the retrieval and generation in separate section.
Or if we have more bandwidth we can fit it in the same section itself.
So we'll see how that goes, how complex this particular section is going to be.
And because I'm just creating this entire thing from the scratch, I don't even have the the idea of
how long this particular section is going to be.
So that's the reason why I'm saying that maybe we can split into multiple section, but for now, let's
see how it goes.
So let's get started with the extraction and indexing part, starting our next video where we are going
to start extracting, uh, our PDF files.